GStreamer 1.18 Release Notes

These release notes are a placeholder, please bear with us while we
finish writing up the real thing.

GStreamer 1.18.0 has not yet been released. It is scheduled for release
in late August / early September 2020.

1.17.x is the unstable development series that is currently being
developed in the git master branch and which will eventually result in
1.18, and 1.17.90 is the current 1.18 pre-release in that series.

1.18 will be backwards-compatible to the stable 1.16, 1.14, 1.12, 1.10,
1.8, 1.6, 1.4, 1.2 and 1.0 release series.

See https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/releases/1.18/ for the latest
version of this document.

Last updated: Wednesday 20 August 2020, 11:00 UTC (log)

Introduction

The GStreamer team is proud to announce a new major feature release in
the stable 1.x API series of your favourite cross-platform multimedia
framework!

As always, this release is again packed with many new features, bug
fixes and other improvements.

Highlights

-   FIXME

Major new features and changes

Noteworthy new API

-   FIXME

New Elements

-   FIXME

New element features and additions

-   FIXME

Plugin and library moves

-   FIXME

Plugin removals

The following plugins have been removed from gst-plugins-bad:

-   FIXME

Miscellaneous API additions

-   FIXME

Miscellaneous performance and memory optimisations

As always there have been many performance and memory usage improvements
across all components and modules. Some of them have already been
mentioned elsewhere so won’t be repeated here.

The following list is only a small snapshot of some of the more
interesting optimisations that haven’t been mentioned in other contexts
yet:

-   FIXME

GstPlayer

-   FIXME

Miscellaneous changes

-   FIXME

OpenGL integration

-   FIXME

Tracing framework and debugging improvements

-   FIXME

Tools

-   FIXME

GStreamer RTSP server

-   FIXME

GStreamer VAAPI

-   FIXME

GStreamer OMX

-   FIXME

GStreamer Editing Services and NLE

-   FIXME

GStreamer validate

-   FIXME

GStreamer Python Bindings

-   FIXME

GStreamer C# Bindings

-   FIXME

GStreamer Rust Bindings

-   FIXME

GStreamer Rust Plugins

-   FIXME

Build and Dependencies

-   The Autotools build system has finally been removed in favour of the
    Meson build system. Developers who currently use gst-uninstalled
    should move to gst-build.

-   API and plugin documentation are no longer built with gtk_doc. The
    gtk_doc documentation has been removed in favour of a new unified
    documentation module built with hotdoc. The intention is to
    distribute the generated documentation in form of tarballs alongside
    releases.

-   FIXME

Cerbero

Cerbero is a meta build system used to build GStreamer plus dependencies
on platforms where dependencies are not readily available, such as
Windows, Android, iOS and macOS.

Cerbero has seen a number of improvements:

-   FIXME

Platform-specific changes and improvements

Android

-   FIXME

macOS and iOS

-   FIXME

Windows

-   toolchain upgrade

-   FIXME

Contributors

-   FIXME

… and many others who have contributed bug reports, translations, sent
suggestions or helped testing.

Stable 1.18 branch

After the 1.18.0 release there will be several 1.18.x bug-fix releases
which will contain bug fixes which have been deemed suitable for a
stable branch, but no new features or intrusive changes will be added to
a bug-fix release usually. The 1.18.x bug-fix releases will be made from
the git 1.18 branch, which will be a stable branch.

1.18.0

1.18.0 has not been released yet.

Known Issues

-   FIXME

Schedule for 1.20

Our next major feature release will be 1.20, and 1.19 will be the
unstable development version leading up to the stable 1.20 release. The
development of 1.19/1.20 will happen in the git master branch.

The plan for the 1.20 development cycle is yet to be confirmed.

1.20 will be backwards-compatible to the stable 1.18, 1.16, 1.14, 1.12,
1.10, 1.8, 1.6, 1.4, 1.2 and 1.0 release series.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

These release notes have been prepared by Tim-Philipp Müller with
contributions from … (FIXME)

License: CC BY-SA 4.0
